hey does this work
hey
yeah yeah
yeah
hey
good morning good afternoon good evening
no matter where you're coming from hope
you all are doing well
welcome back welcome back let's run it
back
let's go everybody
glad to see you all ah
love it
love to see everybody in here saw y'all
folks in here early hey turn up
alrighty folks
as promised we're gonna run it back we
we ran out of time last class right i
try my best to time these classes right
but sometimes we go over and i was i was
trying to scramble at the end so we're
gonna run it back
all the important stuff that we covered
last class we're going to do again
we're going to build out that that api
again
we're going to get it host it all right
we're going to get it hosted
on heroku we're going to run back all
those tidbits make sure we answer a lot
of your questions and then we'll see
where we're at we have some time we'll
do another one another one right and
then we'll keep it pushing
hey
good to see you all ah
y'all you
i don't know how to explain but y'all
are awesome
because uh some days days are long and i
get in i see the energy in chat and i'm
like let's go let's turn up we gotta do
some crud tonight
let's go everybody
good to see you all hope you all are
doing well we online exactly
yeah we online let's go
turn up uh so always as always let's
start off with some questions and we
haven't really done a question of the
day in a while so i'm gonna i'm gonna
ask the normal question of the day first
and we'll do real questions here
uh would you rather be able to see
through walls
or be able to do any math equation in
your head
see through walls
or any math equation in your head
so math or walls please math or walls
i figured yeah this is this is pretty
pretty lopsided i guess uh
i i guess we're all here to be uh
if we're all here to be uh computer
scientist i guess uh software engineers
i guess the masked one makes sense
all right that was this is a this was a
simple question then
[Laughter]
there's like there's like three walls
and a sea of math
in different ghosts hey
what's going on
hope you're doing well thank you for
being here thank you for the gifted subs
and we starting off tonight right let's
go
we got the the crew online
gotten different ghosts in the house
we got somebody we got jason derulo
getting the pokemon card hey it's gonna
be a good night
and we're doing review oh boy let's go
all right
[Laughter]
let's go i i think i'm in the math camp
i'm in the math camp
i was thinking of um
like
like uh
i was thinking of like superhero like
things
and i guess seeing through walls i was
thinking of like cat and like walking
through walls i think i should have been
walking through walls and not seeing
through walls seeing through all this
little little sauce
so i'm glad there are so many so many uh
math answers
all right folks
go ahead and get some normal questions
in if you got normal questions i got
normal answers for you
always give folks a second to get in
here before we jump into it
see through walls of emotions
are we using the same material from last
class yes and technically we didn't
really use any material last class
because we built it all from scratch
yeah
any takes on the new pokemon trailer oh
boy
um not only have i watched like the the
trailer like four or five times not only
have i watched like every video a drive
has put out not only have i watched like
all the riddler videos like
it's been it's been a while it's been a
it's been a hot minute i'm excited for
it
so my thing my
appraisal chunk exactly my thing about
pokemon is pokemon is best when you can
play with others
right that's why pokemon x and y is my
favorite because it felt like you're in
a real world where people could stop
battle with you they could make it all
the way to your friends list
and so the four player co-op open world
come on now
that that that's that's game changing
i can play with three of the homies and
we're just we're just dripping through
hey that's gonna be a good time now if i
could like add folks i meet in world oh
that would be like that would be the
best pokemon game ever made so
i as always i don't give up my hopes
it is it is uh it is game freak at the
end of the day but uh i i think this
might be a big one
this might be a big one
i always get the version that doesn't
sell as well whatever one it like has
the least pre-orders is the one i get
i want that trade credit
all right
no ideally we kicked out no
all right questions questions questions
while we give folks a chance to get in
here
i did get through
all your questions
so it took me like two or three days but
i got through all the mod mail so
everybody said to my mail should i got a
message back uh and everyone that posted
in the askleon you should have gotten a
message by now so i took me a little
while but i got through i'm caught up
sorry i took a little while to get
through all the messages but we're
caught up
cool
mongodb is not working for me what
should i do
are you using [__] atlas or are you
using a local version
start with [__] atlas and make sure
that your ip address is white listed and
then you should have any problem with it
hello world yeah we already learned git
it's on our youtube you can explain
point youtube
and see our git and github class you're
gonna see the basics again tonight when
we push our code um
so you will see the basics tonight but
we do have a full class on it
can i catch up from video two of course
you can crypto
make sure you join our ketchup crew on
discord as well
do we submit project night work for
those that missed it yes
if you're playing catch-up if you're
part of the ketchup crew you should
always submit everything even projects
sometimes you might do those projects by
yourself because you're going through it
at your own pace sometimes you'll go on
discord and try and find a small crew
but know that folks are kind of going
through it at different times so
sometimes it might feel hard to line up
but always ask and maybe find some folks
to work on the projects with you
uh you don't worry about submitting
anything unless i've asked you to submit
it yeah
yeah
it was more you should do it you should
do the work
sometimes i actually do stuff and i
don't i don't ask you to submit it just
because it just i'm not gonna it's just
not it's not worth uh to submit it i
just wanted you to do it right i'm we're
at the point now where we kind of trust
each other a little bit
right there's a little bit of trust
going on here i'm gonna trust that
you're actually doing the work that you
did the projects
right okay sometimes i ask for them
because i want to see them um but i
actually asked you how to tweet me the
cool ones so i'm gonna dig through those
this weekend to see see how y'all did
but yeah there'll be some things i asked
for sometimes there's stuff that's a
sign that i don't actually collect
but i'm still expecting that you did it
and if people aren't doing it then i
guess i gotta start collecting
everything
sometimes that's how it works out
cool does this need to be a passion to
succeed no
i know a lot of well-paid
phenomenal software engineers
that don't write code in their free time
kind of don't like it but they make way
more money as a software engineer than
they do in anything else and so
that's why they do it and i think um
yeah they're passionate about getting
paid exactly occ uh
i think there are some gatekeepers
that'll be like oh you have to have a
passion for software engineering or
you'll never succeed
i don't think that's true i think people
have their own motivations that they can
bring to this that's that's not
being passionate about knowing how to
code i think that's kind of a joke but
if you are passionate about coding it
doesn't make it easier right like if you
are excited about it it makes it easier
um it does help exactly different it
does help like i i really like this
stuff that's why i spend a lot of time
on it so i dedicate my evenings that
helping others learn it right like i
really enjoy i think that makes i think
that's true in any career though i don't
think that's like a software engineering
thing i think i think there are a lot of
doctors that probably don't like
medicine but they like getting paid but
the doctors that do like medicine
probably have a better time right
and then also like the passions
the cool thing about software
engineering is that you your passions
can really align with anything if you're
really passionate about dnd go build
tools for dnd if you're really
passionate about soccer go build
trackers for soccer if you're really
passionate about rap build a rap names
api like we're doing tonight hey
so it to me it's just kind of like an
extension to do the stuff that you care
like the stuff that you care about right
um and so for me i just like to build
cool stuff and i think that's where a
lot of my passion comes from
cool
all righty folks
let's jump into this thank you for your
questions
[Laughter]
the segway exactly let's get into it we
want to run back building out an api
tonight i'm excited that you are all
here i'm excited that you're coming back
to run this back we're going to dive
into crud we're going to spend more time
on this back end stuff we want to take
some time to understand how the internet
works like what's actually happening
behind the scenes like i hope i hoped on
tuesday
which i called the finesse and tonight
we're going to call it success right i
hoped on tuesday you kind of saw a
little bit the wheels started turning
maybe you hung out with the wolf pack on
on on wednesday and you got the gears
turning if things haven't clicked yet i
want them to hopefully click tonight
where you at least understand what's
happening in the background like like
what what what does the request mean
what does a response mean what the heck
what the heck are we talking about here
right if we can start to understand
those basics we're in a really good spot
jason derulo hey thank you for the get
themselves hope you're doing well thank
you for being here
um
and the other thing too is that like the
back end is a lot of
plug and play
i think i think one of the hardest parts
about the back end is that there are a
lot of stuff that we're using that has
already been built for us
and we're simply just putting the pieces
together and one of the hardest things
early on is to like know like what is a
piece
and what do i and what do i like need to
commit to memory right and so hopefully
as we do it again we'll start to realize
like oh these things have already been
built for us we're just consuming them
right so i think that i think that leads
to that's where the trouble in the back
end comes from at least from a lot of my
past folks that i've worked with is that
the trouble comes in is like i don't
know what i have to commit to memory and
what i'm just using off the shelf and so
we're going to get lots of practice with
that we're going to see all these things
again tonight we're going to see the
different pieces and we're going to talk
about them because we're going to skip
kind of like the normal like what is
node review and jump right into the
building
cool
all right
if you haven't already please check in
uh you can do exclamation point check in
here in chat to get the link remember
typing exclamation point checking
doesn't actually do anything it just
gives you the link get to go click like
and retweet please if you're here go
check in i want to make sure that you're
i want to see who's here i want to make
sure that folks that are here get credit
for it when we get to the end and we do
all the cool things that we have planned
and it just helps more folks find it so
they don't have to pay thousands and
thousands of dollars for a boot camp
cool
everybody checks in i appreciate it uh
let's go ahead and keep pushing we're
gonna have a live car class tomorrow six
pm we're going to do some examples live
i got you we're going to do some
randomization and do some classes some
some some some topics live and we're
going to go for an hour
uh the session won't be recorded so if
you can make it that's great um but
we're just gonna get some more
some more car practice in
all right office hours sunday
uh we're gonna run back even more of the
back end answer all your questions have
some fun and and maybe build another api
together as well
remember networking this week i want one
coffee chat you owe me one coffee chat
yeah
car class is going to be on discord so
the the the card class will be on
discord we do a discord uh like their
spaces equivalent yeah
but it's pokemon go fest this weekend
one coffee chat
if you're going pokemon go fest there
you go you'll find your coffee chat
there one coffee chat please
use the sheet
uh making sure you're getting uh make
sure you're keeping track of
all your coffee chats of the folks that
you're networking with
eventually i'm going to ask to see your
sheet
i want to see who you've been talking to
each week i want to see
the interactions that you've been having
so please make sure you're using the
sheet don't save it till the end you
need to start now
if you haven't finished the checklist
you're late here's the checklist please
we got to have this stuff marinating uh
so many folks
um
so many folks have already started kind
of saying leon i've been getting all
this inbound interest because i did the
checklist so make sure you do the
checklist so things can start to
marinate so you get some of that inbound
interest if you
read the celebrations channel recently
we got we had a couple bangers recently
get a couple bangers in uh the the
celebrations channel let me pull it up
real quick
shout out nate
nate dog and
um
russell catch
russell catch and nate dog both posted
kind of their full stories about getting
their job uh
uh amazing job for russell catch and
another great job for nate dog another
person going to uh aws which is pretty
wild we sent a lot of folks to amazon
which is kind of kind of blows my mind a
little bit um but yeah make sure you
keep an eye on that celebrations channel
it's always some good stuff in there but
what i'm noticing from the celebrations
channel is a lot of folks are mentioning
that the things they did like the
checklist and the bank are the things
that helped them like don't listen to me
don't listen to me
right
listen to them
they're the ones that are in the field
right now that are going through the
hunt right now that are saying hey i'm
really glad i did the bank i'm really
glad i did the checklist so i'm gonna
keep telling you to do it
but don't listen to me
go read the celebrations channel see the
folks that are getting jobs and see the
things they tell you to do
and you're gonna notice that it's pretty
similar to when i'm spouting each and
every week to you so please you haven't
started the bank yet start it you
haven't finished your checklist finish
it it's going to be the difference maker
right the difference maker is going to
help you get a job
cool
remember you should be pushing every day
recruiters love those green squares
you'll be getting that that delicious
coding practice in going to be lean
interviewing machines before we get into
the hunt and so you should be doing a
code wars every day and pushing every
day
all right
let's talk about express
i started banking never better late than
never exactly like start today no shame
no guilt just start
ready hold on
let it go
one more time i'll get big for you
deep breath
you let it go
everything is let go
and now we start the bank
code wars every day
and start your bank today if you took
the breath
today you start
there you go
what do i mean by banking hey if you're
new around here do exclamation point 100
devs that's everything you need to know
about our program but we're talking
about the bank if you do exclamation
point bank
it's a list of questions both behavioral
and technical that all the folks that go
through 100 dev study
to be prepared for their interviews
cool
all right so we're gonna talk about
express before we jump into express
though uh we need to we need to blast
back to the past
and talk about how the internet works
chat what is the internet
wires set of tubes yeah
i like this idea of a wire
and it's a wire that connects two kinds
of devices
on one side we have
our client-side devices like our phones
our tablets our desktops and on the
other side of the wire we have servers
what the heck are servers
it's really important question
yeah they're they're just computers
right they're just computers
and they have some code
right
they have some code that is running on
them
that helps them serve
and so what what exactly
are they serving if they're let's say a
typical web server like what's some of
the things they might serve up
yeah html is probably a very specific
thing they might sort of like html css
javascript json right the server's used
to sending all these different kinds of
bits of data back
and i think it's worthwhile for us to
take a pause and like step back and
think about the big picture
right we went to neopets.com
let's go back
all right we went to neopets.com
and when we typed in neopets.com and we
hit enter as soon as we hit enter in the
browser right like i was i was running
i was running i was running chrome which
was my browser and i typed in neopets
dot com
and i hit enter when i hit enter what
exactly did i do
what up you on
what did i what did i do when i hit
enter
i made a request exactly i made a
request to my server
that server heard the request
and what what did the code running on
this server do
what do we know that it did we have no
idea what the code looks like on that
server but we know what it did it did
something
right
yeah
it heard the request and it responded
right that server neopets server heard
our request
and
responded now what the heck
did it respond with
what was the first thing that it
responded with
yeah it responded with an html file
right it responded with an html file
so it heard that request
and it responded
with an html file
where the heck did that file come from
yeah it came from the disc right
remember this is a
computer
and computers have some things
they have maybe um let's see
it's a cpu
maybe they have a gpu depending on the
type of server
they probably have some ram
and they probably have an ssd these days
a solid state drive
and so when the server heard this
request
right when the server heard this request
the code
that was running on this server
knew
how to go
talk to this ssd
get the html file off of it
and once it had that html file
then it responded with it
so all that happened
this is a lot of complex stuff to happen
right we just made a simple request we
typed in neopets.com
we made a simple request
and on the server side a lot of
complexity happened
there was code that heard the request
there was code that once it heard the
quest understood what you were asking
for that you wanted the main page
that code knew how to go and talk
to the ssd it knew how to get the html
file off of it and it knew how to
respond with that file all that happened
you just type neopets.com and hit enter
but all this stuff happened on the back
end all this complexity
so
when we have a simple interface
that winds up doing something complex
for us
that lets two things talk to each other
what do we typically refer to this as
yeah an api so this code
we're actually going to call our api for
now all right we're going to call this
code our api
it's a simple interface that enables us
to do something rather complex
and in this instance
what is the interface
slo said ipa i was like uh that would be
too bad right about now
yeah the url is the interface exactly us
typing in neopets.com
is the interface that enables all this
complexity to happen
including
the response
cool
what are some other ways
that we can trigger
requests
to our server
what are some other interfaces
there's a couple other ones that we
probably have seen before
we have seen
when the user types in the url and hits
enter
that makes a type of request that we'll
talk about in a second
we have seen when users fill out form
and click submit
that makes the request that we'll talk
about in a second we've seen fetches so
maybe from our client side our
client-side javascript is able to make a
request to a server
which is something that i kind of got
lost in the weeds like i was trying to
explain at the end of the last class so
we're going to revisit that idea of like
client-side javascript versus
server-side javascript i think that's a
really important distinction to make but
we'll have some more time to do that
tonight so we've seen typing in the url
and hit enter we've seen submitting
forms we've seen making fetches
there's definitely one other one that we
use all the time that we've used all
throughout this course one other way
that we've made requests
and it's very similar well actually two
more it's very similar to what we've
done and it's kind of like cheating for
me to say this because it's kind of the
same thing but it's very close what are
some other ways that we've made requests
well the event listeners were tied to
fetches so that doesn't count
refreshing yes refreshing is one when we
refresh
that's the same as typing in enter on a
url right when we refresh that's still a
new request to
to the server so refreshing was one and
there's one other one yeah kristin i see
you
kristen lin said links yes when you
click a link that takes you to a new
page well guess what
that's the same thing as typing in a url
and hitting enter
right so we've seen all these different
ways to make requests we've typed in
urls we've clicked links we have
refreshed the page we've filled out
forms
and we've sent fetches
right
all of those are requests
that go to the server
right they're all requests that leave
our client side device
and go to the server
now each of those requests
are actually different kinds
of requests
because what is handling
the request
and the response
architecture is that something that
we're writing from scratch on our own
like this request and response
architecture like what's the
underpinning of all of that
yeah at the core
that is
https
the hypertext transfer protocol is like
how the internet works it's the system
for us to make these requests and
generate these responses
and https
has like four major methods that really
work across this system right there are
gets
posts
puts
and deletes
right that that's kind of what ht https
really understands right to get the post
to plus and delete but those aren't the
like
like the cool kids like the
you know
we're vibing
we're feeling good
we're with our friends
it's a friday
right
that's what we're talking about right
we're not talking about the nerd stuff
we're we're chilling
all right so if we're if we're chilling
we're not going to say get post put
delete what are we going to say
yeah yeah yeah yeah hold on we're going
to bring it back
we're going to say not get
but read
we're not going to say post
we're going to say create
i'm not going to say put
i'm going to say update
and if you're real cool
i mean real cool
we don't say delete
know what we say
we say
d lay
a
delete for short
and two
please don't go around saying delete
it's not a thing
[Laughter]
all right
so
we have a nice little neat acronym
for this reading the creating the
updating deleting
and what do we call it
[Laughter]
what do we call it
yeah
we call it crud
we call it crud right it's just a way of
keeping
these ideas
in our brains right
where when we when we submit a form
we're creating something we're sending
some data to the server
when we are
[Music]
trying to load a page we're trying to
read someday we're trying to get some
stuff back
when we're liking stuff and our likes go
from 100 to 101
when we are
trying to make incremental changes to
stuff that was already there we're
updating and sometimes we want to delete
as well right and so
these four actions
right
these four actions make up like 99 of
what we're going to do as full stack
developers right
we're going to understand like how to
control what we want to have happen when
we're asking to create read update or
delete but it's really just doing these
four things over and over and over again
and so if you can really master these
four things
right if you can really master these
four things you could build whatever the
heck you want right and so that's why i
get really hyped about this because i
don't i don't know if you realize how
close you are to being able to build
whatever the heck you want to build
right from from
we get through this class and next week
and like you can build
whatever the heck you want hey blah
facts exactly right and so i want you to
to to
to hang on just a little bit if the back
end's been a little difficult that's
okay
if this cred stuff is taking a little
while to click that's okay
but you're close
you're close being able to build
whatever the heck you want yes it'll
take time yes you have to google stuff
but at least understanding how it
happens
you're there
so let's spend some time tonight talking
about crud
understanding the creating the reading
the updating and the deleting and then
put that into practice to build our own
api we're gonna get that host it live
online and then we come back next week
we fill in all these methods we'll be
able to create read update and delete
our brains off and be able to build
whatever we want
cool
like a star trek api a
mine was that was what you were working
on the other day right it's all this uh
for the alien one
cool
already
so
let's talk in the context
of instagram
let's talk in the context of instagram
right
when we go to instagram
and we're trying to do this creating
remember we said there's really four
things that we're doing creating reading
updating and deleting we come to do this
creating what's the the way that we
create on instagram like how do we make
a create request on instagram
yeah when we make a new post
so let's talk about it
so we're on instagram
we're chilling
right
and
we go to make a new post
and we fill in like the caption
and we upload the image right
and we click the the post or submit
button
that request leaves our browser
all right let's pretend we're on the
desktop version
leaves our browser
right is that why they call it a post
yeah yeah
right it leaves the browser and it's
making a very specific kind of request
since we submitted a form
when forms submit
traditionally they are what type of
request
yeah they are a post
request remember that's like the nerd
http way that we're talking about like
that's a post request but what's the
the cool
we're relaxing
we're vibing way to talk about it
yeah
we're creating you see
cool so we create it
awesome
and so on our server
right
on our server
there is some code
that is running
that here's this post request
all right that here's this post request
what is that code called that we have
set up to hear this post request
what is that code that's listening
that's hearing what do we call that code
yeah we call that code our api it is it
is our backend yes that is our backend
code but specifically we're calling this
our api
it's the code that's going to be set up
to hear that request and it says oh
you made
a post request
this was the name of the form which was
like new
right that was like the the name of the
form so you made
a post request
it came from the new form which is like
your new post like this form over here
this form over here had the action
of new
right remember when we submit when we
when we actually submit our forms
the we're eventually going to see that
the way we tie forms
to the api like do we know which form
was submitted is that every form has an
action and we could differentiate from
all these forms based on their action we
haven't seen that too much yet but we
will see that in just a little bit so
we're able to hear all right we made a
post request
our api is here set up to hear that
specific
post request
right but to hear that specific post
request and then it just says all right
in the code it says all right here's
what we want to do
well first thing we want to do
is we want to get all that data
all that data from the request so we'll
go to the request
we'll look at the request body
and we're able to get all the data that
was sent along with this request so
we're able to see the caption
we're able to see the photo we're able
to see all this stuff
that was sent over
with that request
and once we have all that data what are
we going to do with it are we going to
like
copy it and throw it away what are we
going to do with all that data
yeah we're probably gonna want to store
it somewhere
and so we might use
another computer
called a database all right like we're
we're using
uh [__] atlas which we're going to see
in a little bit uh so we're using
somebody else's computer to store our
database on so it's like a whole nother
computer we're talking to
and so we got all of our data
from this form and the next thing we
might do is like take this data
and store it in our database
right take all this data and store it in
our database
and then once we're done
right
once we're done
the last thing we might do is say all
right we stored all of our data
let's
respond
let's respond
and let
the browser know
that everything
went okay
i'm gonna respond just say hey
everything went okay
and once the browser hears that
the old school way of of doing the next
step would be to do what we just we we
made the post requests our api heard the
post request
it grabbed the data from that request it
put it into the database and then it
responded saying everything went okay
yeah the old school way would be that we
just refresh the page
and once we refresh the page
that refreshing the page triggers a what
just refreshing the page triggers a what
it's a get request
a lot of folks get confused here and
they think this is an update or a put no
it's not that refresh is always a get
request
so that get request
which if we're if where you know
vibin
we're not going to call that a get
request
we're going to call that
oh
hey does this work it does
we're going to call that a read request
right we're going to call that a read
request
and we're actually going to do some
reading that's what we're going to do
right so that get request makes it all
way to the server the code that's
running on our server that here's that
request we're going to call our what
our api yep so we have some code on our
api
that set up to hear that request
and here is a get request
and here's a get request like on the
main post page or whatever
right
on the main page we'll just say main
page not to confuse folks so we hear a
get request for that main page that just
refreshed
right that page just refreshed
there's a there's a part in our api that
set up to hear that request
and when it when it hears that request
right when it hears that request it's
going to do some stuff
well it heard the request so what it's
going to do first
is we want to we want to get the data
that we need for the page that just
refreshed
so maybe the first thing we might do
would be like go to our database
and get
the data
once we have that data
we might like plug that data
into a template
and that template might spit out
somewhat
what might that template spit out for us
because we eventually want to do one
last thing like they refresh the page we
definitely want to send them what
we want to send them what
when i send them some html right so that
might spit out some html right
we can think
that when we hear a get request for a
page on instagram
right
we hear get requests we're going to like
try and give them all the data they need
for that page
but
instagram's not like storing
post html for each of us they just have
like a template and they like plug your
username in they plug your photo in they
plug your comments and they plug your
caption in and so what we're gonna do is
we're gonna get that data from the
database we're gonna plug it into a
template and that template's gonna
spit out html
and once we have that html
we're going to respond
with the html
and the cool thing is
the cool thing is
because on the last request
we created some data
this html
now has more stuff to show
so it wasn't the post that showed stuff
to the user
the post request
actually gave us the data that we put
into our database right and it wasn't
until the page refreshed and we made a
new request that we got that data put it
into some html and respond it
right
and so it's not really important to
understand all right well how am i
getting this data how am i putting it
into the database how am i generating
html we're gonna get to all of that
what i want you to understand tonight is
that oh
when i make requests
there are all these steps that are
happening behind the scenes and as a
back-end engineer our job is to write
out those checklists the things that we
want to have happen when we hear those
requests
right there's a ton happening that
quickly there is exactly
right
so
as a backend engineer
you would focus a lot on this every day
where you're like all right i heard this
kind of request what do we want to do
when we hear that request do we want to
get some data from a database do we want
to like generate some html do we need to
like go get images from a different
server like what do we need to
what do we need to do
right
and then we package that all up and we
respond
right
and so over the next week in the next
couple weeks we'll see all these things
in motion but for right now i need you
to understand like oh there are requests
being made
the back end apis hearing those requests
and doing stuff
okay
cool
so we've seen get and post so far
what uh what what's something that we
could do so like we we just rendered our
page right so now our page has like a
lovely photo
it has a caption
it has a number of likes
1 000
right
what could we do like what's another
type of request that we can make
yeah we can make an update request right
what would trigger an update request on
on instagram
yeah liking right liking would trigger
an update
liking would trigger an update if you
want to see an update in real time you
ready
if you're on youtube go ahead and smash
the like button and you will see a put
request in real time go ahead
smash the like button if you're on
youtube if you haven't you wouldn't oh
it was too fast go ahead and smash the
subscribe button
right you'll see an update in real time
you're going to see some things change
some things update so go ahead and try
it i'll give you a second
oh you were able to do it nice cool cool
cool all right
so
if we were on instagram
right
and we like tapped the photo
that would be a like
and that like
is a put request or an update request
right so we have our lovely photo the
caption the number of likes
and we
we like the photo we tap it
that is a
foot request
right but that's the nerdy
htmly
ugh
for vibing
how to put
the what
an update
nice update
on an update
we're gonna call it an update
cool
and that update
that update
or that put request is going to be heard
by our server
there's some code running on our server
that hears that request what is the code
that's running on our server that here
is that request what is the code that's
running on a server that hears that
request what is the code running on a
server that hears that request what is
the code running on a server that hears
that request what is the code running on
a server that hears that request what is
the code running on a server that hears
that request hey does this work nice
api
apis the code running on our server that
here's this request
and so we have something like app
dot put
and we're just gonna say like on the the
like route or whatever
all right and when it hears that put
request
right
when it hears that put request
it has a list of things that it's coded
to do
and what it might do is it might say all
right
one
let's look at all the data that came
with that request let's look at the data
let's look at the rec
dot body
and see the data that came through oh
i see that we have the number of likes
and if we have the number of likes
maybe we should update that by
one
so what we're going to do is we're going
to go to
the database
we're going to find
that post
and then once we find the post
we're going to increase the likes from
to 1001
and once we have updated the likes in
the database from 1000 to 1001
well the last thing we're going to do
is we're going to respond
saying that everything went
okay
boom we're gonna respond saying
everything went okay
and in the really old-school way
once the server heard sorry once the
client heard
right
once the client heard that everything
went okay
what's it gonna do
you're gonna call
refresh
exactly
refresh refresh it's going to refresh
the page
and when we refresh the page this time
right when we refresh the page this time
we're going to make another what
another get
and the cool thing about this get is our
server always already set up to hear it
right that get request is already in our
api there is already this app
dot get
and it already knew to
it already knew
to go to the database
find all the data
plug the data
into our template
fit out some html
and then
respond
with that html like it already we
already had that coded that request
comes all the way back with that new
html
but there's something really cool about
this html
it before
right before
the number of likes
was at 1000
but now
it's at one thousand
and
one
right because we had we had just on the
previous request we had made a put
that changed it from one thousand to one
thousand and one
right
so like i said it doesn't matter
it doesn't matter like what's
what's
how this is going to happen it's more
important you understand that like these
steps are happening right like oh when
we refresh the page that's always a get
request and there's some code running on
our server that hears that request and
does a checklist of stuff that we've
already coded like the backend engineer
has already coded that list of stuff we
want to have happen
and it's either going to like respond
with like html or respond that things
are going okay right like and this
listening and responding is the beauty
of building the back end right
and we're seeing that we're using all
these http methods and we're doing a lot
of stuff that's like talking to
databases all that fun stuff and like
that could be a lot like we saw
we built servers from scratch
with the http module we built it from
scratch with the fs module that stuff
was rough
but we don't need to do that anymore
because we have what
yeah we got express now and express is
really kind of handling
a lot of this stuff for us right this
express is like handling all right we
don't have to like use the http module
anymore we just say like app.get
app.post app.put and boom that's it we
we're good right so express is gonna be
handling a lot of this heavy lifting for
us
cool there's one other request that we
haven't talked about yet
what's the last request
delay tay right delete right delay tay
we haven't deleted yet and so
if you want to delay today
let's uh let's think about an instagram
um
how do we delay today in instagram
like what's what's the way we would do
it
yeah we can just like delete the post
right like if it's our post
there's like that little trash can
right and if we were to click that trash
can
uh we could have it set up so we make a
request
right
and the funny thing is like this request
like the liking and the deleting
those requests are being made by what
this is a really hard question if you've
never done this before it's actually a
really tricky question
what's what's the only thing that could
hear
the clicking of the trash can
and the clicking of like the liking of
the post what's the only thing that
could hear those clicks
can the server hear that click
no
it's only the client side the
client-side javascript that's running in
the browser that can hear that click
because of the event listeners the
smurfs you haven't thought of the smurfs
you forgot about the smurfs
right there's client-side javascript and
their server-side javascript the smurfs
are holed up on the client side i can't
believe you forgot about the smurfs the
smurfs are what hear the clicks
even though we sent the code from the
server there that that javascript that's
running in the client is what hears the
clicks right and so
those clicks the delete clicks the the
like clicks they're being heard by the
smurfs in our client-side javascript our
event listeners right and when we hear
those clicks on the client side what's
the only thing we've ever used
client-side javascript that makes
requests to a server
it's the only thing we've ever done
no new friends
that's the only thing we've ever done
fetch
so we know probably in our well in our
client-side javascript there's some code
that can make a put fetch and that can
make a delete fetch which is pretty cool
fetches can do any math that you want
and so we can make them make puts we can
also make them do deletes right and so
when we click this trash can
what's actually happening
what's actually happening is that
client-side javascript hears the click
and it makes a delete
fetch
that delete request
leaves the
client and makes it all the way to the
server
all right
leaves the client makes it all way to
the server it is a delete request
right or if we're cool
you
know vibing
you know hanging out
relaxing
all cool
shooting some b-ball
outside of school
a couple of friends
you're up to no good started making
trouble in my neighborhood
got in one little fight
my mom got scared
she said you're moving with your auntie
and uncle
in bel air
those were the days right
the days
the days when we would have a
nice tall drink in the sunshine
and we would
delay tay right no delete
delete
all right so we're delayed
all right
we delay tay
and the server
is set up
to here
right set up to hear
that request
right
so to hear that request
what is the code what is the code
running on a server that hears that
request
what is the code what what is what what
what what what what is the code running
on the server that hears that what is
the what is what what what what is the
code running on a server that hears that
what is the code what is what is what is
the code running on a server that hears
that request what is the code what is
the code what is the code what is the
code what is the code what is the code
what is the code what is the code what
is the code running on the server that
here's that request
yeah
a
api is the api
beautiful
it's the api
is the code running on the server
it's the code running on the server
that can hear the request
we have an app
we're almost going to take our break one
second
the app is set up to hear the delete
request and it's going to do a checklist
of stuff
it's going to say all right what type of
stuff are you going to delete so it's
looking at the request
what do you want to delete and look at
that request by like what are you trying
to delete
and it's going to go to the database
and it's going to actually like delete
that stuff from the database
and then once it's done deleting that
stuff from the database
it's going to respond saying that
everything
went okay
all right it went okay what up alex and
once it hears that it is okay
what does it do what is the what is the
client side do it here's that it's okay
what does the client side do
hit refresh
it refreshes
when it refreshes it makes the get
the server has the api that set up to
hear the get when it hears the get which
has already been coded the get you know
goes to the database to find all the
data
it takes all that data
and puts it into an html file
and then it responds with that html file
there's something cool about the file
that gets sent back
what's different now about the file that
gets sent back
what is different
don't say updated that's that's that's
you can't you can't say updated that's a
different word
the data we want it is no longer there
the the old data has been deleted
right the old data from the last request
last request deleted data
didn't update anything it literally
deleted stuff right it needed it it's
gone
right gone gone gone delete it
right and so when we go to reload this
page it's missing that data
right it's missing that data
cool so we saw our gets
our posts our puts our deletes we saw
how the different crates the reads the
updates and elites can work and it's
just the point that you understand that
oh
when we're using the internet we're
making requests and we're getting
responses
so
let's go ahead and take our break
when we come
right when we come back from break we're
going to start building our api from
scratch
we're gonna go from zero to hero we're
gonna have a fully working api by the
end and we're gonna have it on roku
all right folks let's go ahead and take
our break
put five minutes on the clock
all right folks let's get in back into
this all right so we just talked through
kind of the instagram we talked about
the creating the reading the updating
the the dela
delete
right and um
i uh i promised that since we were
talking about instagram if you follow me
on instagram i'm gonna pick a few folks
next week we're gonna do five
uh where we're gonna set up a coffee
chat and i'll review your professional
stuff i did a few of them this week
already and like i said i took a break
from them but it was a lot of fun i met
a couple cool folk a lot of really cool
folks this week as i started doing some
of these so if you want to do a coffee
chat professional review if you follow
me on instagram i'll be picking five
folks next week and we'll be doing that
um which i think is a lot of fun so i'm
gonna start picking it back up again so
i'll probably do like five a week or so
going forward uh where we just do a
coffee chat and i'll look at all your
professional stuff so
uh i will just i will just message them
on instagram yeah and then um i'll
probably post the the winners in discord
as well just so if they don't check
their messages they know
all right so
tonight we want to actually build
right
we want to build an app with express
right so we we started this last time
and
we want to run that back build it all
from scratch ask a ton of questions we
still got two hours left so it'll
probably take like an hour or so to
build it out and then we'll play with it
we'll get it on heroku for like the last
hour
cool
all right so when we started talking
about express
we we were like all right we want to use
express of course we go to the website
and we look at express and we see a fast
unopinionated minimalist web framework
with them
i can't even get out of my mouth oh my
gosh with a myriad of http utility
methods and middleware at your disposal
creating a robust api that is quick and
easy
right
so
what the heck is going on
the disrespect
the the
the big words
that i'm going to treat is disrespect
what the heck does this mean
fast we kind of get it it's it's
supposed to be fast right like the idea
that we are using node
and so we're using
c and c plus plus
um equivalents or they we are using the
cmc plus plus underpinnings so that
makes it fast
right
only opinionated what the heck does
unopinionated mean
what does it mean to say that express is
unopinionated
yeah express kind of just doesn't care
what you bring with it
right
it doesn't bring it doesn't matter what
you bring
it doesn't matter what tools you use
along with it it doesn't have like a
specific way that you have to use it
you can kind of bring any tools or
eventually middleware or anything stuff
you want to bring along with it it just
doesn't care it does one thing and one
thing really well and that's the
minimalist part right the minimalist
part is that it does this second
sentence and really only the second
sentence and it does it really well so
it's fast it doesn't care what else you
bring to the table and it really is just
minimal and does one thing and one thing
really well and that's that it gives us
a myriad or a lot
a lot
of http utility methods
what do you think that means http
utility methods what the heck does that
mean
http utility methods
yeah it gives us a lot of like functions
or tools that we can use that helps us
build out our api right that enable us
to use http to hear those requests and
generate those responses what we're
going to see is that we just kind of
like say all right
listen and send this file
send json right and it's just very clear
like it's very easy to read it's easy to
see and it's doing all the heavy lifting
for us because it gives us all these
methods that we can use to kind of do
what we want to do almost in like plain
english right when we want to send a
file we just say send file we want to
use json we just say json and so all
that stuff is coming from express
and it gives us a bunch of middleware
um what do i mean by middleware
yeah
i like to use the the definition that
gets the nerds a quake in but to me
middleware is like anything between the
request and the response right anything
that helps us in between the requests
and the response we're gonna consider
middleware and then it just enables us
to create robust apis quick and easy so
we're gonna see today that we can
actually build our apis pretty quickly
using express uh that should be pretty
straightforward a little bit easy and
then eventually over the next class
right next few classes um
we'll we'll see uh more and more things
what would an opinionated web framework
look like um so there are some that are
built into that use node
adonis is a really popular one that
comes with all this stuff and all these
ways that you have to do things if you
want to use their web framework if
you've ever heard of ruby on rails rails
would be more of an opinionated
framework where there's a way to do it
there's a lot more magic underneath the
hood that's handling a lot of stuff for
you um
yeah
meteor is the old school one yeah yeah
so there are these frameworks that kind
of like tell you how to do everything
that's maybe not just the api sometimes
they'll help you handle like emailing
and
login and all this other stuff that'll
help handle that's just not the api
express is just focused on the api and
not all this other extra stuff that
needs to happen for a web application to
run
yeah
why would you choose an opinionated
versus an unopinionated well when you
use an opinionated framework you're
bought into their system their way of
doing things the cool thing about
express is it just handles your api
you can use whatever the heck else you
want
that's it and so some folks like to
start with express because it kind of
gets out of your way and you can pull in
all the pieces that you want
that means you get to pull in the pieces
that you think are best right
as opposed to being stuck with something
that comes with that more opinionated
framework
yeah
now some people like opinionated
frameworks because maybe you don't think
about those things if it's a good
framework maybe you don't have to think
about all these other little things you
might have to think about when you're
using express so we learn express
because it's fast it's easy to build up
the api and it's very popular in the
node world
honestly and no there's really hasn't
been like one like really opinionated
framework that's dominated kind of like
the way that rails dominated ruby
there's always of course all these other
ones that are out there they're
definitely opinionated frameworks but it
really hasn't one that has ruled them
all you know
and so i think that's actually something
pretty cool specifically when you're
learning uh how to build full step web
applications for the first time there's
a little bit less magic meaning that you
actually have to learn how to do all
these different things right actually
learn how to do all these different
things and that's really helpful as
you're starting to build out a picture
of like what the back end really is
cool
all right so let's go ahead and build
um some key steps we want to do before
we start jumping into building
right before we start jumping into
building
is that we have some key steps we're
going to talk about
so the first steps are setting up an
actual product a project so we're going
to create a folder for our project
we're going to need to like move into
that folder and then we're going to need
to set up our npm init when we do our
npm init what do we get like what what
happens
what happens i don't think you should
code along with this i think you should
kind of pay attention and ask questions
but if you feel like you caught the gist
of it last class then maybe this class
you could code along it's up to you
where you feel you're at right now if
you feel like you just need to absorb
that's okay if you feel like you might
be able to type along go for it
yeah it gives us our package.json and
helps set up the project the
package.json is going to have everything
that we need
to kind of
start the project and it's where all of
our dependencies can be listed as well
cool and then since we're using express
we're going to go ahead and install
and save our express which will make
sure that it shows up in our
package.json
cool
uh after we set up the project there's
really kind of a couple of key things we
want to do
you want to be able to send files
and the cool thing about express is that
we always have this kind of lovely
little callback that has a request and a
response parameter and then we kind of
just stay in plain english we want to
have happen we're going to send a file
so we'll send the file if we want to
send some json we'll just say json
and so the cool thing about express is
that it really does make it a little bit
easy to start doing the things that we
want to do so those are the big things
and then eventually we'll talk about
pushing to heroku at the end and uh
let's let's jump into it
let's build out our api
uh the api that we built last time was a
wrap names api and just to help it kind
of sink a bit more we're gonna do the
same api again
but if we have time we can talk about
how to
modify it so you can build your own api
and in fact that's your homework for
this weekend your homework is to build
out your own api that does what you want
it to do
using the code that we developed today
cool
all right so let's go ahead and
open up my vs code i just have a full a
class 39 folder in it that has some
stuff already in there but what i'm
going to do is just
make everything from scratch
so i'm going to open up my terminal
on mac opening my terminal is just ctrl
shift and then tick like where the tilde
is and that brings up my terminal here
in
vs code
and so
i am in class 39 materials so do a quick
ls to make sure that i'm in the right
spot yep i can see all those other
folders that are listed here i'm going
to go ahead and make a folder for my
wrap api i'm going to do makeder and i'm
just going to call it wrap
i'm going to call it rap names
api
cool
and i think one of the most common
mistakes is people always forget to do
what like we create the folder
and then
what do people forget to do a lot of
times
yep they forget the cd into it
so let's make sure we cd into that
folder wrap
names and one thing that you'll see me
doing a lot
is instead of
typing it all out
what will i do
yeah i'll just hit tab
and tabbing will auto complete it for me
right that way i know i'm typing in the
right path i'm not introducing any
mistakes or anything weird
and now you can see that i am inside
that folder so i'm doing good
all right now that i'm inside my folder
i do know i want to go ahead and
do that lovely npm init that we talked
about since i'm gonna be starting a new
project so npm init
is going to ask me some questions i'm
just going to hit enter through all
these questions
yes yes yes yes
yes yes yes yes yes whatever yes i can
always go back and fix these
um
but when i go through them sometimes i
like to type them out when i do it so i
don't use like the special flags
whatever um but i typed it i just hit
enter for all of these and we can see
that we have this lovely
package.json that has been created for
us
cool
when you're creating file names yeah
that's a really good thing to keep in
mind i don't i don't ever use capital
letters in any of my file names or
folder names and i don't ever use spaces
in any of my folders or file names
because it always gets me in trouble
when i start putting my stuff on servers
right so you'll notice i'll never use
capital letters and i'll never use
spaces
what does a knit stand for initialize
cool
so we're in the folder we've done our
npm init we can see that we have our
lovely package.json file
and the last big module that we need to
start with
that we're going to install is express
so i'm going to do my mpm
install
express
and i'm going to save it so that it
shows up in my package.json
it's going to take its time to install
it and then we can also see that express
is now listed in our dependencies
for
this application
miguel said don't forget about the get
ignore oh that's a great idea let's do
our git ignore right now so we don't
forget about it later on
all right so
we have
a
lovely
lovely get ignore right
and
inside of our git ignore
we
want to put our node modules folder and
so we're just going to go ahead and
create the git ignore file and it's just
a regular file so how do i create
regular files
yeah touch
i'm going to do touch
i'm going to call it get ick nor with
the dot in front of it
and you'll see that i have created the
get ignore file
and that get ignore file if we open it
i'm just going to put my node
modules in there so i just saved that
and my git ignore now has this node
modules
and you'll notice the node modules when
i installed express
look at all this stuff that's there
look at all this stuff just from
installing express all this stuff
all this stuff that we knew that it came
with right like all these meth like all
these utility methods all this stuff
that it comes with and all the stuff
that we're going to need for our kind of
simple node project so this node modules
is actually pretty big
and we don't want to be pushing all that
stuff up to github we don't want to be
sharing all that with folks and so we
put the node modules folder in our get
ignore
right in our get ignore
and the reason why we put it in our git
ignore just so we don't have to deal
with it when we push up to github or
push our code to heroku
right and so i think last time we forgot
to do that we had like this really we
had like a big push it went fast but
it's still a big push cool so
i have my package.json i have my git
ignore i have everything kind of set up
if you have no idea what these things
are you might not have done the what
the homework
the reading
you didn't do it
um
can you do the reading please
you just do it
make our lives easier
for both you and me just do the just do
the homework
do the reading that's all peace okay
fine i'll do it
[Laughter]
you're making me sad over here because
you're not doing the reading
all right
so we have our basic setup here we have
our lovely package.json we have our git
ignore
um
we have all this basic stuff
and we're just going to go ahead and
start creating our actual files so
i think the only really big thing that
we need here now
is our server.js so i'm going to create
my file touch
server
dot js
and
great now we have a server.js file which
will be like the core of our application
yeah some folks that are in windows you
should be using bash to do all these
commands
the commands are different like if
you're using the command prompt the
commands are different uh in vs code you
should be able to switch to
get bash if you have it installed by
clicking like right here like right here
you should be able to click you should
be able to change your terminal
to get bash right uh if you haven't this
if you haven't if you haven't installed
wsl you can still use git bash
um and if for some reason it's still not
working uh i think i saw mine we'll say
and
it's true you can just do create the
files um directly here in vs code so
just do file new
yeah
all right so we have our server.js file
which is blank and since we are building
out our api
using express
what do we need
like muggles no thanks
i have uh z shell yeah you have z shell
if you have like a newer mac i'm on an
older mac so i don't have z shell by
default
yeah if i'm gonna use express i need
express so we're gonna go ahead and do
const express
equals and we're going to go ahead and
require it and we're going to require
express now
express comes with all of these methods
that we want to be able to use and so
instead of having to like constantly use
express and type it out and then like
invoke it and then call the methods that
are on it
very common you're just going to see
const app equals express
like this and so now app can just use
all the methods that came with express
so you're going to see this very very
common to kind of just require express
and then to set up apps so that you can
just like use the things that you
absolutely care about when it comes to
express
and so i think the very first thing i
want to do
to make sure that my like application is
working
is i just want to serve up a file
that's it
i just want to serve up a file and make
sure that this is all working
so this is a boilerplate yeah you could
think of this as a boilerplate yeah
cool
so let's go ahead and just start with
the basics um i know that i'm going to
want to serve up a file when they go to
like the main page so i'm going to do
if they were to just go to my main page
like if they were to go to my main
server like the main page of my server
they were to go to that url which would
be like my localhost url
if they would go there what type of
request would that be
what type of request would that be if
they just went to like my main url that
requested it be a git so we're gonna do
app
dot get
and so we see that the get is a method
that comes with express
and we can plug stuff into this get so
i'm just going to start off with it
being the main route the main route is
always forward slash right main route is
always forward slash
and then we're going to have this this
lovely callback you're going to see all
the time
you're going to see this over and over
again where it's going to have the
request
and the response now a lot of times
you're going to see rec and res like req
res but just know that it's request and
response when i first start out i like
to have the full words there um just
because i think it's a little bit easier
for new folks to read but no you're most
always going to see rec and res you can
actually call them whatever the heck you
want but i highly recommend that you
don't change them there's a lot of
middleware kind of expects it and you
can get into some weird situations so
i'm going to use requests and response
in here i'm going to break this and so
now
it's kind of just like a what this is
very very similar to our y we've seen
this pattern a bajillion times
what is this very much like
nah not i mean it is a function but it's
technically a technically a method but
we've seen this pattern over and over
and over again yeah
afrocardio said it is an event listener
it looks exactly like an event listener
right it looks exactly like an event
listener
and so
it's gonna be the same thing but instead
of this being a click
right instead of it being a click
it is a network request
right so instead of it being a click
it's a network request
and so when it hears this network
request
it fires this function just like when
you clicked on something
it fired a function this is the same
exact thing
if you know what an event listener is if
you've made a click event in the past
you know how to build the back end
because whatever we put inside of here
is completely in our control
right now let's update us just like when
it was up to us what we put in our click
event it's up to us what we put inside
of this of this callback here we can
make it do whatever we want we can make
it console.log we can make it send files
we can make it we can make it whatever
the heck we want
right
and so
we get to put what goes inside this
callback
cool
so what do we want to do when somebody
goes to the main page we want to serve
up
we want to serve up some html
um so we're going to say let's respond
or response like that's the
that's our parameter we're going to
response and our response is going to be
to send
it's going to be to send a file
cool
send file
now what file do we want to send
uh we want to send
an index.html we want to send like an
html file it doesn't have to be
index.html whatever the heck we want but
it's pretty common that if they're going
to the main page that we send them an
index.html
so we're going to send them an index
dot html
however
our server
won't know where to go and get
this html file like it won't know where
to go get index.html so we have to tell
it where to go look for this file and so
you're going to commonly see something
that looks like this
underscore underscore dur name
plus
the index.html
and so what's going to happen is that
now the server
knows to look in its direct like the
current directory for that file so all
that's saying is like hey wherever
you're running server.js wherever you're
running just start looking from there
and if you start looking from there
you'll find this lovely
index.html file
right
just telling it where to start looking
right and so um this is just something
that like this is just the syntax that
they decided to use right it's not
something that like is a big decision
it's just something they chose to use
and so now this is going to look in this
main directory for the index.html
however we're going to run into one big
problem
so is there name the root exactly chow
what's the problem we don't have it
there's no index.html here right we
don't have this file
so let's go ahead and get that file
index.html
beautiful
let's real quick
in this index.html set it up html let's
use emmett to kind of do all the heavy
lifting for us
and let's just put an h1 in here that
says
uh wrap names
api
cool so now we know that it can at least
serve out this file that says wrap names
api
and uh we know that eventually we're
going to build an api so let's get them
a little bit more information
um
let's say
let's say let's do like a paragraph and
say
please
use
um
local
post
8 000
8 000 slash
api slash
and we can say
insert
uh let's just do let's say like
wrapper name
there you go please use those wrapper
name there you go just so they know like
that's the route to use
cool
just so that they if they come to our
server they know how to get the data
back that we'll eventually build so
we've got a simple html file
our server set up to serve that file
there's one last thing that our server
is not set up to do yet
what's our server not set up to do yet
yeah it's not set up to listen yet
servers are make you know some of the
best partners because all they do is
listen
oh
hey
all right so app
dot listen
and the same pattern that we always
always always see
um we're to tell it where to listen
and then we're going to tell it what to
do
so like once it's heard what are we
going to do we're just going to say
console log
um and we can put something in here like
we can list like console.log once we've
heard something and so
we have to tell it where to listen
though
and so often you can you can just put 8
000 in here if you wanted to like you
could just plug 8 000 in
um but often you're going to see that we
use a variable here instead
so i'm going to use port
and i'm going to do const
port
equals and i'm just going to set it
equal to 8 000
and so now i'm just using port down here
and when we hear the console log let's
actually change these to ticks so we can
use template strings and you say um the
server
is now running
on port
we can plug in our port
and we'll just say
port in here
better
go
catch it
cool
all right i saved my file that's
important we forgot to save the other
day so now i know that i'm using express
i set up my port as a variable which
would be helpful later on
um
we set up so that if it is listening and
it hears this get request it's going to
send the html file
and we set it up to listen on this port
and when it hears the uh once the server
is running it should console log this
lovely sentence here
anthony hey thank you for the raid
appreciate it i hope you're doing well
welcome raiders
we are building out a simple api using
express i hope you all had fun
over in their stream what we all doing
you all working on
welcome appreciate it
anthony thank you for the support on
discord
love having a part of the hundred devs
community hope your uh your stream went
well thank you for stopping by
yeah hold on we get that we need to give
them a shout out
i can do this
i'm just gonna do i think it's just
easier if i type it out
boom there we go i'll probably replace
it a few times let's see hold on
it's correct
hey there we go all right
i was able to check and see that they
were hosted
all right here we go boom boom boom boom
don't give them a follow yeah go ahead
and give them a follow they've been
helped really helpful in our discord i
appreciate it thank you for swinging by
hope your stream went well
cool
so we are in our
in the in right now building a simple
api
and we went ahead we saved our file
we have our get requested up we have our
listing set up um how do we get this to
run
how do we get this to run
so when he follows a you deserve it
thank you
yeah just node server.js all right let's
try it
node
server
dot js enter
all right
i see that my server is running
the server is now running on port 8000
better go catch it i can see that i
don't have my repple back so i know that
it's still running because i can't
actually do my next command
and let's go to localhost 8000
and see what we got
cool
localhost 8000 rap names api please use
looklose 8000 slash wrap slash wrapper
name uh so it's telling us like what we
need to do if they want to actually
consume the api
now
we served up this html file
uh i think our end goal
is to just be
an api
what do i mean by that i think our end
goal should just be to be an api
like i'm not trying to build the full
app
i just want to build the api that anyone
can consume right so i'm not going to
build html
or client-side javascript that'll make
requests to the api that'll be on the
them to do so i'm just setting up the
api just like the pokemon api just like
all that stuff so i don't want to
actually be able to consume my api i
just want to be able to respond it's
going to be able to respond with json
and so i think that's something we got a
little confused with last class is that
we can have client-side code that's
making requests to a server
we could have also set up our server to
not only send json but we could also set
up to make requests to our own api and
so we're going to keep those separate
for now the only point of this program
tonight is to respond with some json
yeah
so right now we're serving up an html
file this will be the only uh this is
the only file that we're going to serve
up we're only going to serve up html
we're not going to serve up client site
javascript we're not going to serve up
css
the only thing that this application is
going to do
right the only thing this application is
is send json
why do we need html then if it's a
server-side api i just want them to know
what to do right have you ever tried to
use an api and they don't give you any
documentation how shitty is that
right you were to like try to use an api
and they don't give you any
documentation like how how frustrating
was that when you were all trying to do
your api uh uh a couple classes ago
right so we're gonna serve up at least
one html file that explains how to use
the api that we're creating
right
so we're gonna we're gonna at least
serve up one html file because we don't
wanna become the the demons that gave us
frustration when we were doing our api
work we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna
learn from that that pain that struggle
and make it better for the folks that
come after us all right so we're serving
up one html file which will be our
documentation everything else we want to
serve up will be just straight up
json
so
let's go ahead and create another route
another get because they're going to
make a get request for this information
and what's the route that we said that
we're going to use in our documentation
was the route that we said that they
should they want to ping our our server
what's the route that we're going to use
yeah we just said api
so we'll just do api
and if they ping slash api
this is what we're going to do
this is what we're going to do remember
i always just type this out request
response just get used to it the same
thing as a click event right is the same
thing as a click event
particuso17
thank you for
the hydration cheers to you
i went for a stronger tea today i'm
doing the tazzo awake english breakfast
with a
splash of full fat oatly
thank you i appreciate the the mug
compliments
all right
all right so
now we're saying all right if they make
a request to api
uh here's what i want to do i just want
to i want to respond with some what
what i want to respond with
oatley more like goatley ah i see you
man
json so we'll say response
dot json json darullo where yet
we're going to start with some json
and let's just respond with like a
simple a simple json object
so just to make my life easy i'm just
going to it's going to create a simple
object here
let's just make this
21 savage at first i'm going to say
const
savage
equals
and we're gonna put 21 savage's info in
here so let's go ahead and do
[Music]
let's do
birth
name
let's do
[Music]
birth
location
and
let's just do that for now i think we
had age last time too we can do
age cool
all right and i think 21 savage was 29
their birth name let's grab it real
quick from wikipedia
there we go
beautiful
and their birth location was london
england
are you all good at geography
i'm a beast at geography
one of these days we have to do like
during like office hours we'll do like
uh
we'll do um
your play like we click on the maps
i can do all the maps i know where every
country is where every state is
i'm pretty good at it we can do it
together and if i get stuck on one
chat can help
maybe we'll do that as for fun one day
we need to do like a fun stream one of
these days
what do we do for fun we played play
geography games
all right we got our savage code here
we have an age
we have a birthday and we have a birth
location
[Music]
cool
and all i want to do here is just
respond with savage
so if they make a request
to api
right
if we make a request to this route we're
going to respond
with savage
and savage
is just an object so we're going to
respond right we're going to respond
um with object
that object so let's see if this works
we should be able to just test it right
in the browser
um
but what do i need to do before i go
test it
what do i need to do before i go test it
i need to restart my server so let's
stop and restart my server to stop my
server i'm just going to do control c
uh when i do control c that'll stop the
server
and then i can just do up arrow to bring
node.js back up and hit enter and now
the server is running again
and let's go back to localhost 8000
and let's try the api route so we'll do
slash api
and cool we got the savage information
back now i don't like to do it just
straight in the um in the browser here
because we'll run into more complicated
stuff that we're going to build and this
won't work always so i like to use
postman to do this
and the cool thing about postman is if
you install the desktop agent
even servers that are running locally on
your machine
you can make requests to
right so you can see that i'm running
the desktop agent you can see down here
that it's green so i can do local
host
and if i just did localhost 8000 it'll
it'll show me what i get back which is
the html and i can see the html that i
get back from just the main route
and
if i do slash api
that should also work let's try it and
we're getting that savage data back
cool
first try
yeah i've tried a bunch of the other
ones i just like postman i'm used to it
apis are cool this is like magic i think
so too
this to me
is like
the coolest [__] ever
like this this to me
like
like the idea that i can build my
anything that i have an interest in
i could build out an api that folks
anywhere in the world could like consume
and like use and we're gonna put it on
heroku tonight so that anyone in the
world can use it like that's like the
like like what
like that's amazing
right and so all we've done is we've
just used express
to set up two requests we have a get
request for the main page
right
and we have a get request that say if
they type in something slightly
different
they just type in slash api
well then we're just going to respond
with json and it's so wild we can just
say like response send file response
json we don't do anything fancier than
that if we want to send a file we do
send file we want to send some json we
just say json
we don't we don't have to understand
what's happening underneath the hood we
don't have to know like the nitty-gritty
of like http and how it's making
requests and generating responses thanks
to the wonderful world
of express
right
and so there's a lot of stuff here right
and next we're going to start adding
more so next week we'll be doing the the
updates and the deletes and the post so
it does get more complex but it really
is just easy to build our api using
express
cool
now we're learning express can we
implement it into our group project
always always take the stuff that we're
learning and put it into the projects
absolutely
so i need to download the desktop agent
for this if you want to run localhost in
postman from your browser you will need
the agent yes because it this browser
won't have access to the servers running
locally on your machine
eventually once you put it on heroku you
have to worry about this but
if you have it running locally you'll
you'll need you'll need that desktop
agent
all right
alrighty so
we have our simple api set up but
i don't want it to just be 21 savage i
want it to be a couple rappers
and so we'll do two rappers and then
just unknown
so instead of this being savage i'm
going to call this
rappers
and we'll put this first one here we'll
just say that of course this is
the young 21
savage
all right we'll do 21 savage here
and
i'm just going then
tab this over
and this has to be an object so we'll
open it
and we'll close it all right so we have
our wrappers object that opens and
closes then we're going to have a
property of 21 savage that has a value
of an object
then we're going to do another one let's
do chance the wrapper
please say the wrapper
pull
and we're going to do the same thing age
also 29
earth name
got my quotes
birth name
chancellor
bennett has it bennett right bennett i
can't spell bennett
bennett like that i don't know look it
up
all right let's look it up real quick
chancellor bennett double e
double n double t that's actually pretty
fire all double letters
oink there we go chancellor bennett
and
uh birth name i'm sorry birth location
cool and i ain't going to spell it out
so i'm just going to copy it
i town
illinois
um there we go so we got our 21 savage
we got our chance to rapper
and let's just do an unknown so in case
somebody types in something like they
don't get something silly back they
actually get unknown
um known
and we'll go ahead and do
um age
and we'll work since age might be
expecting a number
we'll we'll return just zero
right we'll return zero
we'll return a birth name
and that birth name will be
unknown
and the birth
location
will be
unknown
as well
cool so now we have 21 savage chance the
rapper unknown what i want to do is i
just want to return this
let's just make sure that this
this works right let's just make sure
that this works
um
i just want to be able to send this
object as a json object
and so i'm just going to pass in
wrappers
cool let's save this it's saved
let's restart our server
leon do you advocate node mod no get
used to starting and stopping your
servers before
right before
you um
start using tools to help you
cool
so let's go and do node server.js
server is now running let's go back
let's go to nodemon and we should now
get more info when we hit this endpoint
cool so we're getting 21 savage chance
the rapper unknown back it looks good
uh natrana go ahead and do exclamation
point 100 devs and join the ketchup crew
on our discord that'll be a good place
to start
all right
so we have all this new data that's
coming our way
and what i eventually want to be able to
do
is not return all the wrappers
right
um not return all the wrappers but i
want to be able to return individual
rappers like i want to be able to turn i
want to be able to return
individual rappers right
and so what am i going to need
from my user
if i want to use individual wrappers
like what am i going to need
yeah if i'm going to return them data
from origi from from an individual
wrapper well we're going to need them to
give me that wrapper and ideally as a
query parameter so
when we come back from our break we're
going to show how we can use query
parameters so that our users can ask for
a specific rapper's information and not
just get this big old object coming back
with all the information so we'll take
our break we'll come back we'll do that
we'll get this working and then we're
going to get it on github so we'll see
that again and we're going to add it uh
to heroku so we got a full hour left to
just finish this out and then get it on
github and heroku so we'll take our time
through that then we'll have an api that
is live online that anyone can consume
and you'll be able to do it too all
right
mike joel added two minutes to the timer
so we're gonna take seven minutes for
this break uh if you are able please get
up move around hydrate
so
uh we said before break when we came
back we'll make it so that we're not
just sending this massive chunk of data
we can actually set the data that
they're asking for so
if they ask for 21 savage we could send
that out that's for chance the wrapper
we could send that out
and what we want to be able to do is be
able to use query parameters
and so there's something really neat
that when you're using express
you can just do
after the slash colon and then whatever
you want to call your query parameter
so we're going to call this like i'm
just going to say name for now
give you whatever you want we could have
called it robot unicorn it just doesn't
matter and so i'm just going to call it
name because that's probably the easiest
to read
and now i can do something really cool
i can do
rook i can cut let's just console.log it
for now but i can do requests
dot params dot name
and so whenever a request comes in
if there is a bit of text
after the slash
i'll be able to grab it with this line
of code this request params name so
actually let's just console log it at
first
console.log
right console.log
let's just save it and we can even just
do it in postman i'm going to restart my
server
and
we should see down here whatever name we
request so we come back here
and we do api
slash
robot
unicorn and we click send
you can see we're still getting that
chunk of data back because we haven't
changed it
but
in our console log
we saw robot unicorn
right so we said all right and if we
change this name we we can change what
we want to call so we can call this
um
le chunk
all right so we can change this to le
chunk and then the params name would
have to be the chunk
cool so if i save this it should still
work
let's go ahead and just restart our
server
cool
i'm going to come and do something here
gonna say api slash
pokemon
cool
we still get that big chunk of data we
haven't told it not to send that big
chunk of data
but we can see that pokemon was console
logged so the parameter name that we put
here after the colon doesn't matter what
we call it
so it's just helpful to call it name for
now
name
name and we saw that in the url whatever
we put here is what's coming across is
that
request.params.name so whatever we put
there that's where we're joining it out
of the url we're taking that string out
of the url and we're using it within our
program so now that i have the name
i can look for
specific wrappers that have that name
in our data up here
and so one thing that we're going to run
into pretty quickly um and what i'm
going to do is i'm just going to put
this into a variable
i'm going to say let
wrapper
name equal and actually this doesn't
we're never going to reassign this so we
just make this a const we can say let
wrap sorry const wrapper name equal
request params name
we're going to know something we
probably want to do right off the rip
with the names that are coming through
the url that are coming off the query
parameter
something we might want to do
we want to make sure that everything is
lowercase right
what if they
if they were to ask for chance the
wrapper with the capital t it wouldn't
work
so what we're going to do is we're going
to make all this stuff lowercase in our
in our object up here unknowns already
lowercase and then we're going to say
whatever comes in we're also going to
make lowercase two
lower
case cool
so now we'll get the parameter off of
the url
we'll make sure that is lowercase and
now we know we're only dealing with
lowercase
names cool
so now what i want to do is i just want
to check to see
if the name the user has given us when
they're consuming our api
actually exists
in our big old object up here
and since we know that our object name
like our object properties have spaces
in them
we can't really use dot notation
what do we have to use
dot notation really doesn't play well
with with the uh the spaces we use
brackets yeah so we're gonna do a nice
little conditional down here
and i'm just gonna say if
when i say if
rap
what was it called up here wrappers
if rappers
has wrapper
name so like if rapper name
is a property of wrappers
so
wrapper name what we're getting back
from the url that's a property of
wrappers so we can see
21 savage is a property of rappers
chance the rapper is a property of
rappers and unknown is a property of
rappers so i'm gonna check here i'm
gonna say whatever gets passed in
see if that exists inside of that
rapper's object
right
and if it exists inside of that
wrapper's object
let's go ahead and just respond with it
so we'll go ahead and we'll respond
with json rappers
rapper
name
cool
so if that rapper exists
inside this rapper's object
then we respond with that rapper because
remember this right here if we were to
pass it if rap name was to be 21 savage
as though we plug 21 savage in here and
as though we plugged 21 savage in here
and when we use that 21 savage in
wrappers what it gives us is this object
right here
if they have passed in
right if they had passed in chance the
wrapper it would have grabbed this
object right here if they had passed an
unknown it would have given us this
object right here
cool
all we're doing
is grabbing these objects
based off of the property name
it's not checking birth name at all
understand what i mean by that
it's not checking birth name birth name
is part of that object though right so
this object has birth name included in
it um it's not grabbing anything yet
we could tell to grab stuff in here
right we could do this let me show you
something real quick we could do
um if we just console log just just to
make this easier let's get rid of the
conditional for now just for one second
let's go ahead and console.log
console.log
wrappers
wrapper
name
cool so what we should do is we should
be able to console.log whatever this
equals
let's go ahead and save this let's
restart our server
and let's try passing in a wrapper let's
try passing in 21 savage
did i save
i did my server's running there we go
cool
so what happened here
real quick what happened here
why is it just kind of like hanging
did i ever tell it to respond with
anything
no i never told it to respond so it's
just sitting there waiting for a
response
it's literally a person's just literally
sitting there like going all right any
day now any day i'll get a response but
we there's no code here this i love this
yes
ah
i love this [__] right there's nothing
here
that tells it to respond so do we get a
response no
no there's no response so it doesn't get
one
right
it doesn't get one we haven't told it to
respond we did tell it the console log
and so since we passed in 21 savage what
we actually did here is we actually
passed in
savage into here
and we looked up rappers
with the key of 21 savage so if we go up
and look alright here's wrappers here's
the key of 21 savage so this is what
we're going to console log this object
here nothing else this object here and
so
if we look we can see that we console
log that object what if we took it if we
got a little fancy with it what if we
did dot
birth name
let's try that again
let's uh we might have to
refresh this cancel
let's try it again though oh that i
didn't restart my server though let me
restart my server
oh my server is running
try it again
still
it's it's like wait a
minute now now we're now we're getting
we're getting somewhere a little a
little deeper here oh wait sorry i
should put wrapper name in here
cool
there we go
let's go ahead and save it let's try it
again
um
hanging it's waiting it's waiting we
never told it to
we never told it to refresh but look
we plugged in 21 savage
we were able to just get the birth name
if we wanted it
like if we wanted just the birth name we
could get it right we can see it print
it in the console now
right so we are
grabbing that object and then once we
grab that object we can use any of the
properties inside that object that we
want
all right
cool
so i'm going to go ahead and get rid of
this console.log we don't need it
and i'm going to bring back our
conditional
all right so now we're going to check
all right if that wrapper exists in the
object
let's go ahead and send all the info we
have on that rapper
but if it doesn't exist
what should we send
like if that wrapper doesn't exist what
should we send
you should send unknown yeah so let's go
ahead and set unknown
response.json
and we're going to send rappers
on
known there we go it's in wrapper's
unknown which should grab
just this object here so let's go ahead
and try that
um
let me restart my server here
great it's running on port 8000 we
better go catch it
and
if we come back up here and we refresh i
don't know i refreshed refreshed
local hosts
8 000 slash api slash
let's try 21 savage
give it a second
oh let's restart the server
let's restart the server make sure
and then what's the error do you see the
error
you see the error
i was trying for 800 not 8 000.
second try let's go
let's go
and now we're just getting 21 savage's
information
right we're just getting 21 savage
let's try chance the rapper
please say the wrapper
let's go
now we're just getting chances
information let's ask for somebody that
doesn't exist
in our database yet polo g
no no no let's go
let's go
build out an api folks look at us
but i'm not a rapper
i'm not a magician
but i'll miss the fire
name super hot
you can call me
mr fire
if you never see me battle well then you
missed the fire
bars
bars on bars on bars
oh let's we gotta say again hold on
i'm not a magician
but i'll miss the fire
name super hot
but you can call me miss the fire
if you never see me battle well then you
missed the fire
bars
i'm not a rapper
i can confidently build a project now
let's go i hope you're like you can
build this you can build your own api
i love struggle bars
like corny bars i love corny bars all
day
when abg neal said
i can't eat it outback i got too much at
stake oh it just wrecked my mind
bars i don't care what any of y'all say
bars
can't eat at outback
got too much at stake
bars
all right
we built an api folks
this is it we're able to we could make
it we could make this do whatever we
want you want this to be a pokemon api
boom change up this object you want it
to be a spice girls api boom change up
this object you now have the power to
build
to build
[Laughter]
oh
leon you got a soundcloud not yet
not yet
sm0211k
thank you for the hydration cheers to
you
all right
let's get this john on um
on github
and then let's get it on heroku
so crispy nugget which i'm sure most of
you know has been working on the 100
devs ep
we just got a chance to talk about it
face to face yesterday well online face
to face
and they've been building some really
cool tracks we've been remixing some of
this the music that we've used and so
uh we're coming out with 100 devs like
music
uh so you can you have something to look
forward to
all right
um let's just get this on
github so that we can share it with
everyone and then we're going to push it
to heroku
half mayo we use passport for
authentication um
i have some misgivings with jwt tokens
and i think passport is just easier for
folks to understand
you might join a company that does it
differently but that's what we use here
cool
all right so this works let's get it on
github
um
once
a second here
cool
i'm logged into github
let's create a new repo
new repository
i'm going to put it on the 100 devs repo
i'm going to call this rap
names
api
so we have this rap name api i'm going
to make it public
and i'm going to create the repository
and i love that it kind of just gives us
uh all the stuff we need all the
instructions to get init the add the
commit the branch changing let's go
ahead and do that
let's go ahead and
i'm just going to chill my server so i
can i can push the github
and let's just do an ls-la
uh what am i checking for just real
quick with my ls-la what did i what did
i just kind of want to check real quick
yeah i wanted to see if i already had i
wanted to see if i already had a get
repository or like a get uh if i in
order to initialize git and i want to
make sure i had my git ignore um so the
dash la gives you the hidden files so
the git and the get ignore would be
hidden by default because they start
with the the dots so i just use that to
check there is no get so i need to do
get in it
great so now i have my git repository
i'm just gonna add everything so i'm
gonna do git add dot
i'm gonna go ahead and do my first
commit so i'm gonna do git
commit dash m
and i'm gonna say uh working
api
beautiful
and then i am going to
uh go ahead and change
my branch to main i'm going to do this
get branch
flag m main
if you're like i never remember how to
do this don't worry they just give you
the instructions right on github
boom so i've changed my branch to main
and i'm going to add my remote and then
i'm going to do my push
origin main so we add our remote so we
know where to actually send this to on
github
great then do our get push
u origin
main
all right
so we're pushing it up it pushed up
really quickly um when we go and look
back
on our
repository
you'll notice that there's something
missing here
what's missing here
the node module folder isn't here so if
you were going to if you were to clone
down this code
right if you were to clone down this
code
right
you would have to do what
you would have to mpm install exactly
you have to npm install so
what we need
is a
good readme file that explains to do npm
install
and should probably use the alec ortega
readme template that we've seen in the
past and so what i'll say is the first
person
to submit a pull request
that has the readme file
that follows al cortega's template and
everything looks correct it tells people
how to do npm install and start the
server the first person to submit that
pull request
we'll set up a call next week uh we'll
do like a 15 minute just kind of coffee
chat and i'll look over all your
professional stuff so first person to
submit the pull request
uh gets that this upcoming week
aha
you need all that stuff and you need to
be quick all right
so our stuff's on github which is all
great fine and dandy but we don't just
want it on github
where do we want our stuff these days
we don't just want this local we want it
on heroku as well so
we're gonna go ahead
and put it on heroku uh to put this on
heroku
uh i need to
pull this over here
and i'm just going to do heroku login
uh if you don't have two-factor
authentication set up when you do heroku
log in you'll do this flag i
and this flag i will enable you to like
log in right here in the terminal but if
you have two-factor authentication you
have to like do it without the flag
and when you do it without the flag
uh it'll open the login in your browser
so i'm going to go ahead and log in
it's going to say do you want to open it
in the browser so i'm going to say yes
it's opened up the like it took me to
the browser
i'm going to click login
i'm logged in
and now i can come back here i'm just
going to clear real quick and so now i'm
logged in
you couldn't see because i did it on the
other screen
but it took me to my browser i just
clicked login and i came back cool
so
now i'm logged into heroku
and like i said if you
if you haven't set up two-factor
authentication you just put your like
your username and password in there
since i have two factor authentication
had to like take me to my browser i had
to click a button and then it
kicked me back and i'm logged in
it was just heroku login
cool
uh next i'm gonna do i'm gonna like
actually create the
the the actual place on heroku like the
actual project i'm gonna do heroku
create
and i'm gonna call this
wrapper
api
i'm just going to call it uh 100 devs
uh let's let's do 100 devs first
100 devs
wrap api
there we go so i'm going to create 100
uh
oh i had to start with a letter that's
why i did it that's why initially i
wanted to do it the other way
wrap api
100 devs
cool it's already taken because i
probably already did that
um
rapper api
100 devs let's see
it's already taking i see you guys are
beating me to it let's just say uh
wrapper api
100 devs
class
there we go
uh so now
i have created
the heroku create wrapper api 100 devs
class 39
uh
application
and
let's see i have everything on here
what i want to do now is i want to tell
i wouldn't i'm going to need once i push
this to heroku i'm going to need to tell
heroku
like how to
right
how to
run
my server
what program do i need to what do i need
to like how do i start my server right
how do i start my server
like if i wasn't thinking about heroku
yeah it'd be node server.js so there is
a command that we can use it's called
echo and we're just going to plug in
what we want to have happen so we're
going to say web
node server
dot js
and we're going to say proc file
cool and so what this should do is it
should create a proc file for us that
has that web node server.js in it
uh it looks good i'm gonna hit enter and
if we look we now have this lovely proc
file and then all it says is web node
server.js
and so what this is saying
is when we eventually push this to roku
like when we put this code on heroku
server it's going to use this file to
know how to start the server because
roku won't know to do node server.js we
have to tell it hey to run this do node
server.js and so heroku expects this
file to know how to um start the server
cool
cool so now we have the proc file i
think everything here is pretty good
we're going to push with a breaking
change but it's it's so we can
demonstrate stuff
all right so let's go ahead and do uh
get
okay add dot
hit commit
bash m
and we're going to say
um
working
wrapper
api
and we're going to hit enter
and then we're going to do git push
roku
main
cool and what should happen is it should
take all this code
and push it up to heroku
and that's what it's doing
give it a second
cool
and so now this should be live on heroku
and i'm just going to take this link
here
and i'm going to see if it serves up our
html file before you all take it down
and it looks like it's not really
working honestly like it's not loading
and so when i have one that's not
loading what i like to do is i like to
go and look at the logs on heroku so let
me
let me log in here on heroku
and
there we go this should be fine
and on heroku
we can do something extra we can we can
look at the logs here i can click on
view logs
and i'm going to see some stuff
i can see that the build succeeded
um and it's trying to
[Music]
run
but it says web process failed to bind
to port
what the heck does that mean
it says it it failed to bind to port
what is what does this mean
yeah is heroic is do we know if roku is
going to use our original port 8000
no
heroku needs to be able to use its own
port we put our code on their servers
they want to set up their own ports so
let's go back and take a look at our
code
and let's look at our server.js and so
instead of
hard-coding port we're going to do
something that's a little different here
and we're going to use an environment
variable
or
our hard-coded port
and so this environment variable we'll
see these more as we get deeper and
deeper into the back end but basically
they're like little keys that we can use
and so heroku already has a port set up
in mind
right
and if we want we can just use whatever
heroku is trying to use by using this
little bit of
[Music]
this little this little string here so
this is saying hey
try using whatever heroku setting up as
the port
and if it doesn't exist
use our hard-coded port
cool
like i said you should be just following
along right now you don't have to be
trying to install heroku and all that
crap you can always do that after class
if you need help installing the heroku
tool belt you can watch mine will stream
where they did it live so you should
just be kind of watching along here if
you're frantically trying to type along
you're going to get you're going to get
lost in the sauce here
that's why i asked you to to set up
heroku for homework cool
all right we have heroku's port now so
we should be able to re-push the heroku
so let's add our changes oh first let's
save our changes let's do git add dot
get commit dash m
and
we're going to go ahead and say
edit
roku
port
cool
and we're gonna do git push
roku
main
cool
the commands i'm using are all in the
slides so i've already given you all the
commands all the commands are in the
slides so if you need any of the rook
commands i've done they're all in the
slides
cool all right so we look like we pushed
up to roku
let's um go back to our application here
and try again
and there we go we can see that it's
working we can see that our wrap names
api is up and live
and let's go ahead and try it in
postman
let's try it in postman
let's pass in one that we know will work
which is 21 savage
and
boom
look this isn't no localhost ma look
it's not locals this is a hosted
api
that is now returning rap name
information that we created
let's go hold on 10 second warning
5 second warning
what is the code running my server that
here's the request
[Music]
we are literally on line we are
literally online
we online
what is the code running on a server
that hears that request we online let's
go
let's go
all right so we created a server
and that server we can make requests to
right we can make requests to
and we're getting that data back
let's try somebody we don't we know
that's not in here like polo g again
and we're getting unknown unknown
unknown
and if we do let's do chance the rapper
please say the wrapper
all right this is this is working it's
working real good we're getting all that
good data back right
oh boy we build an api that's online
we got some it's a very simple
documentation here i know it's really
small but it says please use
oh it says localhost 8000. we got to
make that change right we should change
that
um in our html
let's say please use
there we go which is the link like the
name of our like the where our
our site is hosted on heroku
so let's save that let's let's push this
change get add dot
get commit
um
update it
html document
and then we're just going to do get push
hiroku main
cool so we're pushing back up to heroku
right
pushing up to heroku
roku should get our changes
cool
if we go back and we try to like reload
our server sometimes it takes a few
seconds but boom there we go now it's
saying please use and it has the link to
our server that's hosted they knew they
know to use wrapper and then wrapper
name
uh so this is looking pretty good
this is looking pretty good uh all of
our code is now all of our server side
code is now put on heroku and heroku is
now running our code
boom
i feel pretty good about this
we're able to ping it
um we're able to use postman the ping it
but
where are people actually going to try
and consume this code from
like when you were all consuming apis
where were you consuming your apis from
yeah you were all trying to consume them
from client-side code
and so let's see if this would actually
work
with our client-side code so i actually
already built a nice little client-side
application here it's called client-side
code let's go and take a look at this
client-side code it was in the class 38
folder you should already have it if you
download the materials from last class
but if we look it has like a nice
index.html
um that's set up to like consume an api
and so if we open this right now and i
open this in the browser
did i open this server side or locally
this is a local html file it is local
javascript
and if we look at this client-side
javascript that is local
we have a fetch
and so it's just like a normal fetch
that we've done it is an async await
fetch right
this is like a normal fetch
we have our event listener
that fires the api request
function here this async function
it's going to grab the wrapper name out
of the input
and it's going to plug that wrapper name
into this url so let's actually
switch up this url to be our url the new
one that we just created
right there we go so now we've plugged
in our url so it'll grab the wrapper's
name out of the input
it'll plug that rapper's name into the
url
it'll make a request to our server
they'll make a request to our server
and then we should see
the birth name show up in the dom
right
it should show up in the dom
i saved it everything is updated i have
the html file that is open locally on my
machine locally on my machine it's set
up to point to our api
let's see if anything happens so let's
go ahead and and keep open the console
just to make sure that if we see any
errors or anything like that let's put
in something we know that works 21
savage
click me
and it works
beautiful
it got data back
right it got data back
from our server
but wait hold on
where's all this other stuff coming from
origin atlanta georgia
what
huh
wait a minute
what happened here
did i refresh the page yet or is this
the old api
this is my old one
this is old data i gotta refresh i
didn't refresh remember we changed the
url it's now a new url that was my old
api that i added stuff to that was old i
didn't i i saved here in the local file
but i never refreshed the local files
let's try it again 21
savage
click me
uh oh
access to fetch from origin null has
been blocked by coors policy no access
control allow origin headers
so what happened here
what happened here what happened here
is something that happened to us
time and time again when we were
building our simple api projects when we
were just trying to get freaking pokemon
or game of thrones characters we kept
getting blocked by cores over and over
and over again and we would curse to the
high heavens that we'd have to go and
find another api because the server said
not today
right servers have to be set up to
handle requests from local files
remember this is running locally on my
computer and it's trying to request a
file from a server
right servers have to be set up to say
you know what that's okay we'll take
those requests that's okay we'll take
those requests but for some folks they
didn't set it up so that we could make
those requests from local files so we
were just trying to use apis we're just
trying to be cool you know we're trying
to
vibe
feel good
just use our regular javascript
all right we're just trying to have a
good time
you're trying to live that friday life
shout out this friday
6 p.m eastern time
we have our car class our cause action
results we gone by we were just trying
to live our best live we were trying to
we were trying to just vibe out and what
they did is they said
not
today but let me show you how easy it is
to fix this on our server side like our
server can be set up
right our server can be set up so that
it allows these requests from local
files like i'm trying to do right now so
let's go back to our server
and
i'm going to make sure that i'm in the
right spot i'm in my wrap names api
server i'm just going to go ahead and do
mpm
install
course
and i'm going to save it
npm install cores
save it
we're going to see that in our
package.json we now have a new
dependency called course
right we now have a new dependency
called cores
and then in our server.js we can require
this course
module
const
course equals course or sorry require
course
cool so now we're going to require this
package that we just installed this core
module that we just asked for and then
we all have to do is tell express to use
this package so we're going to say
app.use
and we're gonna pass in course
that's it
we said hey
our server should be able to set up to
handle these requests
right
that's it i set up to handle these
requests
let's save it
our server code is saved
let's do git
add
dot
git commit
dash m
edit cores
cool and we're going to do get
push
roku
main
all right i'm going to push up to roku
it's going to take a a few seconds for
it to
to load up here
all right a few seconds to load up here
all right it's pushing up to heroku
all right should be live on heroku which
means if we come back to our local code
and we try it again
boom
first try let's go
i was gonna i was gonna flip off the
camera but i realized i'm flipping you
off and not that so i'm gonna turn this
way
[__] you
for not turning this on
you know that we're gonna be just like
beginners trying to use these apis and
you're telling me
that it was
two lines of code
and you couldn't do it
i'm gonna tell them about themselves i'm
gonna i'm gonna tell them about
themselves
two lines of code are you gonna do it
for me
oh somebody's getting an email
somebody's getting an email
[Laughter]
all right
so
let's kind of recap what we were able to
do tonight
we were able to build
a full stack web application
that was an api of our dreams
a rapper's api where we're able to
listen for requests right we're able to
listen for get requests and and return
files we're able to listen for get
requests and and return json if we want
right we're we're able to look at query
parameters on those requests that are
coming in
we're able to put this code on github
we're able to put this code on heroku
we're able then to
have it live and online for anyone in
the world to consume our api we can
consume it through postman we can
consume it from client-side code so
other beginners that are trying to use
our api they can actually use it with
just their client-side code we turned on
cores
because it was two lines of code
be online folks
be online
so if you want to play with my api feel
free to i'm sure eventually you'll
you'll take it down if we all
run to it but
it's live it's online
after class i'll share the github repos
so you have it
you'll have the vod which is immediately
available
and folks this weekend you got some
stuff to do for homework
uh this weekend i'm going to ask you
we took a deep breath earlier in the
class we started prepping the bank
if you haven't completed your
professional links it's time to get them
done this weekend you're going to need
to create heroku accounts [__] atlas
accounts postman accounts if you don't
have them and you're going to want to
install the heroku cli or command line
utility or tool belt whatever they call
it these days and make that sure you
have that installed if you don't if you
get lost trying to install it minewolf
has
a lovely vod on their channel about
installing all this heroku stuff
then i'm going to ask you to read
something that
expressed from full stack open it's
meaty there's a lot to it just get
through it
and i want you to make your own api by
tuesday take this code
modify it so that you return different
content i don't care what it is my
little pony pokemon i don't care what it
is just make it your own and get it live
on
roku
cool i hope you had some fun
let's get you all some more channel
points by doing a raid
uh tomorrow we have our car class cause
action result we're gonna do it live and
online we'll be on discord at 6 00 pm
eastern and we're back on sunday for
office hours if you want to run back and
build a different api we're gonna do
something else fun on sunday we'll we'll
answer some questions for like an hour
and then we'll build out a whole new api
so you want to run it back you want to
run putting on heroku putting on github
all over again come on sunday we'll do
that together but for now let's set up a
raid
let's see
uh rufio is online so of course we're
gonna go to hello it's rufio
um if you have not followed hello as
rufio yet you're missing out please give
them a follow
uh let's go ahead and send the raid
their way
all right so i'm queuing it up
it's your sweet sweet channel points
have a wonderful rest of your thursdays
y'all i hope this was helpful i hope
running it back makes them make it a
little bit more sense if it's still not
clicking that's all right come on sunday
we'll make sure you get there
but you can do it folks you can build
real back end web applications you are
full stack developers you are back end
engineers you can build real apis you
can host it for real and heroku you can
do this this weekend prove it to
yourself build that api of your dreams
if you get stuck i'll see you on sunday
all right everybody let's raid